The following controls are in effect:

Mouse: General interaction.
Clicking while a text line is being drawn forces it to be completed
immediately. Clicking while in "click wait state" -- whenever there's a @ or \
in the script -- resumes execution.
Right clicking while in click wait state calls the menu.

Keyboard:
F5, F6, F7: Sets the text speed to slow, medium (default), and fast. "Speed"
means "a wait of X milliseconds between the rendering of each character".
Unless these speeds are manually set with the defaultspeed command, slow waits
twice as much as medium, which waits twice as much as fast. The text speed
setting is engine-wide. I.e. Changing it in one game will be reflected in all
others.
F, ALT+ENTER: Toggles fullscreen.
S: Un/Mutes audio. Note that this simply sets the internal volume to 0, and
audio is still being processed.
CONTROL: Fast-forward. Must be held down.
PERIOD: Toggle fast-forward. In reality, it has the same effect as holding down
CONTROL.
UP, PAGE UP: Enter log mode (where the previous pages of text are displayed) if
possible, or go back one page if already in log mode.
DOWN, PAGE DOWN: Advance one page if in log mode.
UP, DOWN: (only when there are clickable buttons on the screen) Cycle through
the buttons.
ESCAPE: Enter menu if in click wait state. Exit menu if in menu (it also exits
the save and load dialogs). Exit log mode if in log mode.
ENTER: Continue execution if in click wait state. Behaves as a left mouse click
when the mouse cursor is hovering over a clickable button.
SPACE BAR: Same as ENTER.
F12: Take a screenshot.
PAUSE: Enter the debugging console. The engine must be waiting for user input.
See Console.txt for more info.

Joystick:
UP, DOWN: (only when there are clickable buttons on the screen) Cycle through
the buttons.
Button 1: Same behavior as ENTER.
Button 2: Same behavior as ESCAPE.
Button 3 (if available): Same behavior as CONTROL.
Button 4 (if available): Same behavior as F.
Button 5 (if available): Same behavior as F12.
NOTE: The joystick requires at least two buttons aside from an axis control
(e.g. a d-pad or analog stick) to be usable by the engine. If a joystick that
doesn't meet this requirement is found, it will be ignored.
